Hello and welcome to this new tutorial today we're going to make our first functions insularity.
So as you can see these functions will get us the query and at coin's of an investor investor will be
the input of the function and the equity in us the investor.
All right so let's do this let's make these two functions to make a function and solidity.
We need to start with a function then we need to give a name to that function and we'll call it equity
in coins.
And as we just said this function will take as argument.
The investors are dressed like you know it's publicly which is a unique identifier that allows to differentiate
investors and to specify a variable argument function and solidity.
Well as for what we did previously we need to specify the type first which is an address and then the
name of that doorbell and the name of the variable we have to choose it.
It's going to be in this too.
All right.
That's pretty clear.
We take the address of the investor as input of this equity and had coin's function but be careful.
This is the type and this is the name of the variable.
And then before we define what this function has to do we need to specify the type of what is function
returns which will be of course the equity and therefore an integer.
Again it will be an unsigned integer because the equity is always positive and besides we'll add here
you'll see that the address of the investor is an external constant.
There is a constant you know never modified and that is beside outside of the contract because no the
address of the investor is not proper to the contract and will specify this by adding here external
constant just like that external constant.
So that's for the address of the investor.
And now to specify the type of what this function is going to return.
Well we have here returns.
And then the type in parenthesis and the type.
As we said is a you ended your function.
So for those of you who want more information or explanation on this external constant.
Well I prepared for you here.
The bar of the documentation that contains these explanations.
So in contract in this part of the documentation you will find constant state variables.
So you click on this and here we go you have a lot more explanations on these constant state variables
you know state variables can be declared as constant and that's what we just did.
So great if you can check this out.
Now let's go back to remakes and let's continue our function.
So we are done with all the preset of this function and now to define what this function has to do.
Be careful it's not a calling like in Python it's some brackets.
And again if I press Enter We are America you get the closing brackets.
OK.
And now inside this function we have to code what we want this function to do.
And what exactly do we want this function to do.
Well we want this function to give us the equity in at coin's of an investor.
We already have the address of the investor.
So we're going to take that address and we're going to use of course the mapping that we made previously
to take the addresses argument and returns the equity in Atkinson and that's all we have to do.
Thanks to this mapping here.
Now some of you might wonder why are we not using the mapping directly instead of making this new function
which looks redundant.
Well that's because this function that we're making right now is exactly the tool with which we will
interact.
In my wallet you'll see we'll have in the dropdown list of the actions we can do this function and the
other functions we'll make.
Like buy at coins or sell at coins.
So that's the main reason we're making this function just retaking the mapping in order to be able to
call this in my ether wallet.
OK so now what we just need to do is therefore to get our mapping which we called equity at coins.
So I'm copying this and here I'm going to return exactly this mapping return the query at coin's which
of course takes an argument the address of the investor and therefore to finish this we just need to
input here.
Investor.
All right.
Done.
And let's not forget the semicolon.
There we go.
Our function is ready.
So congratulations for having implemented your first function.
Now let's be very efficient and copy this in order to do the same for getting the equity in US this
time of an investor.
So I'm pasting that here and now know we will get a lot of errors that I've read but that's OK as is
because we have the same functions.
We just need to give another name here which will be of course equity in U S D.
That's a new function which will take as argument the address of the investor.
Don't forget that address is a type an investor is the name of the voivode.
This investor variable is an external constant and this function will return the equity in US dollars
of the investor and therefore I here replacing that coins by you as the.
Because indeed the name of our mapping mapping the investor urged us to its equity in USD It's called
equity easy and therefore here lets press enter and there we go.
We have our second function perfect.
So that's it for this Statoil.
Quite an easy one in the next one it's going to get slightly more challenging because we'll make eventually
our buy at Queen's function which will be the action the tool to buy some coins in my wallet.
And so that's exactly what we have to implement in this next it's oil and then we'll have a final to
toil to implement the inverse function to sell some odd coins because I remind that we offer to our
investors the buy back option.